Did you have any favorite teachers when you were at
A&M?
Oh, I remember some of them. Which ones can you
remember?
Well, I didn't have any favorites among the
chemistry department, because the biggest
percentage of them busted chemistry.
I remember I went and talked to Dr. Brazell about
it. I said, now, Dr. Brazell, I'm no top A student,
but I says, I can name you some students here who
never busted a course till they got in the
chemistry
department. But we had a lot of friends. It was good
cooperation between the faculty and the
students. As a overall, you would say you found the
faculty pretty helpful to you then? Oh yeah, they
were, they were, they were swell fellows. We liked
them all. Well, I said we'd do it. I guess the
chemistry professor was all right, but their
department wasn't very much in favor. Earlier
today when we were at lunch, you mentioned a couple
of faculty members. I think you mentioned Dr.
Francis. Dr. Francis was head of the veterinary
department. But you didn't have any classes under
him? Yes, I had classes under him, yes. Well, I was
wondering, since you were in agronomy, according
to the 17th. Yes, but the agronomy course did have a
course in two veterinary courses in the agronomy.
Dr. Marsteller, he was also
in the veterinary. He was head of that school for a
while. He succeeded Dr. Francis. Okay.
What did the students overall think about the
administration? And I guess maybe I better make a
dual role of administration because you had the
president who ran the academic side and you had the
commandant who kind of controlled the military.
Known as the bull. The bull, right. Did the
students feel favorably towards both of those
people or? Oh, I think so. Of course, they kind of
feared the military because they were always so
strong about discipline.
Then
what about Dr. Bazell? You mentioned earlier that
you talked to him about the chemistry. He was very,
very fine, very well liked, very popular among the
boys. Everybody liked him. He knew a lot of them by
name.
I knew him very intimately. Ms. Brazell used to
entertain some of my dance dates. Girls would come
down and I was in his home a good many times. I
believe something I read indicated he taught a
Sunday school class for a good long while while he
was president. I expect he did. He was a very
consecrated Christian gentleman.
Can you think of any new traditions which were
started while you were a student? I know the
bonfire precedes you and several other things
which were still being done today were being done
before you came, but one of the things that's very
hard for us to pin down is when did something start?
Can you think of anything that was started during
the four years you were there?
I don't recall.
Some of the gills that the student body used today
were started during my Saw the Texas Longhorns on.
Saw the Varsity Horns on. Saw the Varsity Horns on
the starter. Chickaroo rim, Chickaroo rim.
Rough, tough, still rough Texas A&M. That was one
of the starters there. I think they still use them.
I believe so, yes. Freshman, everybody went to the
ball games. If you didn't play, just especially
freshman. He didn't go to the athletic events. He
just got his butt patted. Did now, of course, they
stand during the ball game. Did you stand then or
did you sit down? Yeah, that was the 12th man. Yeah,
they'd stand.
I think the spirit was, I don't know anything about
the spirit, the core spirit, now. I would believe
it would be better then than it
is now. Well then it was somewhat of a unanimous
thing and now it's an optional. That's right. It
was very unpatriotic not to be that. I remember a
couple of years after I graduated, to give you an
example of how the Corps thought,
I drove in, me and my wife drove into the campus
about 11 o'clock one morning, Thanksgiving
morning, for the Thanksgiving game against the
university. And I stopped my car at the gate and I
saw a freshman standing off to one side over there
and I said, wait, I believe I'll see how the game's
coming out. Well, I said, what does he know about
it? I said, well, I just want to talk to one of these
freshmen. So I went over there and I said, young
man, how's the game coming out? Well, he looked
kind of far off. I said, well, I just finished it two
or three years ago, and if I knew how you boys felt
about this game today, I'd know how it was coming
out. And the kid was teed up. He come in, he's
crying, standing there by himself. He says, we're
going to beat those SOBs just to show as we play this
afternoon. He said, I haven't slept on the campus
for three nights. He said, they run me out every
night. I said, we're going to win. So I got back to
the car. I told my wife, I said, well, we're going to
win the ball game. She said, is he a prophet? I said,
no, I just got the feeling of the Corps.
And they used to win then. And you can check it, but I
think
14, 15, and 16 that
our football team wasn't scored
on. You can check that and see. I don't want you to
go. Well, let's see. I believe something we talked
about earlier, the branding of the university
steer. I believe the university's intention to
brand it with the 16 score uh would have indicated
we were scored on in 16. maybe so i don't know what he
is i have a list of the scores but
uh while we're talking about that branding of the
steer since since uh that branding was done during
when when you were a senior what can you tell us
about that incident Before I set in on the planning
of it, I wasn't among the five that went over there.
You have in the annual who went. The branding team,
they called it. And I set in on the planning of it and
what we were going to do. And I saw them that night
when they got back. They said the job had been done.
What prompted them to go ahead and brand the steer?
Well, Lutcher Stark, who's a very wealthy man, a
university alumnus. He gave the university, he
was an alumnus down in Beaumont area, Fort Arthur
area. He gave them a very beautiful steel. It was
orange and white steel with long horns. And so he
was, I guess you'd call him the mascot. And between
halves, Two university cowboys would have their
steer on rope, bring them out, and circle them
around. So they were supposed to beat us that year,
but we did win 13 to nothing. I don't know whose idea
it was. I think it was a very good one. Somebody
decided to just go in and brand that darn steer. But
our score went up. And he never did appear in public
after that. I understood that they gave him to one
of the charity institutions
over in Austin, butchered him. Made beef out of
him. We have a clipping in the archives that
indicated that they butchered him and had a
banquet at which representatives from both
schools were invited and they supposedly divided
the hide between the two schools. I didn't hear
that. But we can't... prove that. There was a
clipping and it's pasted on the back of one of the
pictures we have of the branded steer. A student by
the name of Atkinson, he was kind of an amateur
photographer around there. He went over there
with them and took a picture of the steer. And so
they took his camera away from him over there on the
scene, but he was sharp enough to admit it, as soon
as he snapped the steer, he took the film out of his
car, out of his camera, and put them in his pocket.
And the university boys rushed down there on him
and caused quite a bit of fight. And they took this
boy's camera and broke it up on the pavement. But he
had the film in his pocket. So he came back and made
an enlargement of it, eight and a half by 11 or
something of the steer. Sold them at 25 cents a
piece, and I think everybody down there bought
them. Well, I've seen several. He probably made
out pretty well on them. Oh, yeah. Yeah, he charged
them too much a piece. That was the most popular
picture around there, I'm sure, except another
one that he sold, that picture of September Morn,
the girl in the water. We
talked earlier at lunch today about the taking
of the rice owl which occurred I think during the
same school year, didn't I? I believe it was the
same school year. Do you have any recollections
about that episode? Yes.
Rice had this owl. As I remember it, it must have
been five feet tall, a stuffed owl.
So the boys stole it and brought it back up and put it
in the armory and locked the door. Where was the
armory then? I think it was a room in the old main
building, if I remember right. It probably would
have been the new main building. The old one
burned. Yeah, well, it was the one that's still
there now. So, naturally, the rice men wanted to
get the owl back. So they employed a man from the
Burns Detective Agency to come up there and locate
it. They had been up there and tried to find it, and
they couldn't find it. So they employed this guy,
and so he came up there and located it. So then he
phoned and the rice men came up there and they got in
there about 11 o'clock at night and broke in the
army and started back with it. And they captured
this guy, this Burns Detective Agency. And they
had a kangaroo court up on the old Ross Hotel that
was there. And they were very much rode up over that
bird and he came up there for a fee. Said if it had
been sportsmanship or rice boys, well that's all
right. But that guy was hired to come up there. So
they threatened every way to kill him from that on
down. So finally up there on the second floor of
Ross Hall, we had him up in the room. And they
decided to cut his hair.
And they made him bald-headed with some clippers.
I remember that just as well as what happened
yesterday.
And a plane coming out of Bryan going south. It was
about 1 o'clock or 1.30 or something.
They had just got through clipping him. And they
asked him if he thought he could catch that train.
And he said he believed he could. He was scared. I
thought they were going to hurt him. So they opened
the door, and he hit the sidewalk rock. And he
caught the train and went to Houston. Did the boy
that took the owl get away? Was that any problems?
They got it back to Houston some way.
They scattered out. They took it back in the
automobile. And a bunch of fellows got on this one
o'clock train and stopped off at every station
between College Station and Houston.
I don't believe they found it. I think they got back
to Houston, if I remember right. Something else
has occurred to me to back up a minute about this
university mascot. This one that was branded, was
that the first one they ever had? Yeah, that was the
first longhorn steer they had. Beautiful animal.
Well, I had understood that it was a magnificent
animal. They named him Bevo because that was a Back
in Prohibition days, that was a near beer, you
know. Non-intoxicating drink that had a beer
flavor, I believe it was. Yeah. Was that name given
to him before he was branded, do you know? I don't
know. That's one of those things. One of the things
we've been trying to track down is one story that
has been handed down was that the boys over at the
University in Austin took that 13-0 and branded
over it and made Bevo out of it. I don't know. and
from the pictures I've seen with, it would have to
be some very strange looking letters too. Well
they didn't, he never did come out anymore. He lost
his soldier's mandate. That's the idea after he
got that offer. Yeah, well I think that some more on
the barbecue. I believe that it was in January of
1920 that they finally butchered him and had a
barbecue. That was after the war, you see. And we
have on file an invitation to that barbecue in the
gymnasium over at... That's interesting. ...in
Austin. See, I left the door.
Reveille, the dog. That was during my day, the
first reveille. Well, we have a file. I'm sure you
do have a big file. Newspaper clippings and so
forth and pictures. And somewhere on campus we
have a painting of the first reveille. Well, the
first reveille was during my term.
And then, of course, we have files on the
successors as well, the second and third
reveilles. And then we had some files of some other
dogs. I guess at one time or another there were
efforts to, between the first and the second
Reveille, to have other dogs as mascots, but it
never seemed to work out. Do they still have a
Reveille? Yeah, still have a Reveille. And still
under the charge of e-company.
Were there any girls in any of the classes that you
attended when you were there? The reason I ask is
that all the professors' daughters tried to get in
on some courses, but they couldn't. The
professors lived on the campus.
Well, I had understood from some people that, and I
believe one of them was C.W. Crawford in
mechanical engineering, that from time to time
there were a few who Took some courses, and I
believe his sister- Was that prior to World War I?
I'm not sure that it was. I think it was after World
War I. Because his sister, I believe, finished a
degree there in 24, which means she would have
started after the war, probably. Of course, there
were the Hudson twins, much, much earlier than
that, who took some courses in engineering.
And they, I guess, finished the whole curriculum,
but didn't get a degree.
We know that a lot of the students who were at A&M had
jobs of one sort or another to help make ends meet or
help pay their tuition. Did you ever have a job when
you were there? No, I didn't. Okay. Did you know
people who did? Oh, yeah. There's a lot of boys who
worked with me. What sort of things did they do?
Well, all the way from dice shooting on down. I know
a boy went through that, I guess, four years, the
last two or three years, with his dice. But they had
legitimate jobs. They worked down in the barns.
They worked in the laboratories. They did janitor
work, not in the barracks. They had men to do that,
but in the classrooms. That's why there was some
job to work, down at the dairy. different places.
Do you have any idea how much they were paid? I have
no idea.
Did the students who played, now this would be on
the regular teams of football, baseball,
basketball, and so forth, have better treatment
say than the rest of you fellows who didn't
participate in those? Well they did athletics
table down in the mess hall. They got, I expect they
got more stakes than we did. You had it once a week.
We had it on Thursday night, but they didn't have a,
they weren't off in a barrack to themselves. They
were scattered throughout the Corps, and they
were, they were relieved of a lot of military
drilling. they were working on out there, they
were excused. They were excused from walking the
post. I would imagine during the time that the
rescue students were in your afternoon drills,
why three days a week they'd be practicing
football.
I noticed that from the Longhorn, the year that you
graduated, getting your picture and your major
and so forth and so on, indicated that you were a
member of the Ross Volunteers. How were you chosen
to be in that group? That was highly competitive.
It was limited to a certain number, and I don't
know, I don't recall how many. And you were voted
on. They'd have an election in the spring of the
year, or the next fall, and they met on Sunday
afternoon. And each fella, he'd have his friend
that he'd want to get into Ross Volunteers, and
he'd put his name up for election. So you had to be
nominated by somebody. Yes. Your friend would put
your name up and they would vote on it.
the one that have room for a certain number. And of
all the men that were nominated by their friends,
the one that got the ones maybe that had 30
openings, whatever the opening was, the ones that
got the most votes by then they were elected. Very,
very fair. So who then voted? All the people who
were members of the Ross Volunteers? Yeah, the
Ross Volunteers would vote, you see. I'd want Bill
Jones, for example. Another fella would want Sam
Smith, put his name up, and then make a list, and
they'd vote on it. And then you'd vote for, if they
needed 30, you'd pick out the 30 men that you
wanted, and the other fella would pick out the 30
that he wanted, and the one that got the most votes
would get in. For whatever number they needed.
That's right. They had that many vacancies.
Uh-huh. Okay. Did being in... The Ross Volunteers
were only juniors and seniors, right? That's
right. Did that require a considerable more
amount of drill than your regular three hours a
week? No, it didn't. Not too much drill. You'd get
to wear a white uniform at the dance. That was the
way it was going on. They'd wear a Ross Volunteer
white uniform. At the dances and other socials. At
any of the dances? That's right. Did you wear your
white uniform or anything other than the social
occasion? No, that's all. Just the social
occasions. You wore your regular uniform. So it
didn't excuse you from any other drill? No, no.
You'd still be a member of your regular company?
That's right. Is it that way now? I believe it is.
How bad is it? You still have to be in the Corps,
first of all, to be in the Ross Volunteers. Well, of
course, everybody was in the Corps then. Yeah. And
I believe that it's still juniors and seniors. And
I'm not sure whether it's- They lost their
understanding when they didn't make it to
Compulsory Corps. I guess you have the record of
it. In World War I, I think that'll bear out
investigation. They furnished more officers
than West Point. I believe in World War II also.
Also World War II. See, my class was a senior, and we
were seniors there. To graduate in June, they
graduated us in April. That is, they let us go on
into service in April, and graduated us early to
get into service. Were there any academic
requirements? Did you have to have a certain grade
or something to be in the Ross Volunteers? Or no
drill competence or anything like that? I think
there may be some of that now. I'm not sure that
they're still chosen by the other members.
I probably should check on that to see exactly what
the procedures are. But I believe... Academic
rating had nothing to do with it. I believe you have
to have a certain amount of academic rating. I
think it would probably be good if it was.
Let's go on. You indicated that your class
graduated early, and I gather 100% of them went
into the service immediately. Oh, yes. Everyone
that could stand a physical examination went in.
And where did you, where did you report to then?
Most of us reported, well different places. Some
of them went in, most of them though reported to
Camp Leon Springs in San Antonio.
And then of course the others, they went to the Navy
or the Marine Corps, but nearly all of them went in
there, went to Leon Springs. And then when we got to
Leon Springs, they would transfer them into the
artillery or into the cavalry or into the
infantry. What branch did you serve in? I served in
artillery. Where all did you serve? Just in the
States. Just in the States. I was sent to Camp
Taylor, an artillery school. Which is where? It's
now Camp Knox, Louisville, Kentucky.
Louisville, Kentucky. And what you primarily
were involved in then? I did not get overseas. You
were training new inductees? That's right. Okay,
and you were released in what, 1919? Yeah,
December 1919. And then what did you do? I went back
home and went farming. What kind of farming did you
do? Cotton farming, cattle. I did it pretty hard,
the cattle. When I got out of service, cotton was 40
cents a pound. It went to 12 cents a pound. The cows
were $70 a head, and they went to $20 a head. So I
started out. So how long did you remain in the
farming business? 1927, when I moved to Amarillo.
What led you to come to Amarillo? Well, Amarillo
was a booming town then. It struck all around you. I
moved out of the house I was born in when I moved to
Amarillo. Two oldest children were born in St.
Louis, but I was going to get away then. So you just
kind of pulled up stakes from Caldwell and came
west then? Came west, that's right. Did you move by
automobile or did you have some other means of
transportation? Well, it came in a model train.
Model train. Wife and children came on the train. I
came ahead of them. Did you have a prospect of a job
here before you decided to move? No, I wasn't. Just
opened up a little material business. Is that what
then became the, ultimately, what? James Brick
and Supply Company, which now be run by my son, Al,
who's class 42. And then we also had a business in
Lubbock, Western Brick and Supply Company. And I
was interested in organizing, saving them, or
saving the loan.
Could you tell us a little bit about the business
that you started? It was the supply company
primarily of bricks and tiles. That's right. We
went into other building materials. Well, did
you... Steel windows, steel doors. Where did you
get your brick? Did you have a plan for making them?
No, there's no bricks been made in the pan. They're
shipped from East Texas, or Mineral Wells, Texas,
or Brownwood, Texas. all that brick that comes in
here shipped in here they haven't found a suitable
material here to make them so you you uh brought
them in and sold them to contractors who were
contractors and
then you when did when did you uh sell your your
company to your son? 59. 59.